The President: Hi, everybody.
It's been seven years since
the worst financial crisis
in generations spread from
Wall Street to Main Street -
a crisis that cost millions
of Americans their jobs,
their homes, their
life savings.
It was a crisis
that cost all of us.
It was a reminder that we're
in this together - all of us.
That's how we've battled
back these past six and a
half years - together.
We still have work to do,
but together, we prevented a
second Great Depression.
Our businesses have created
nearly 13 million jobs over
the past 64 months.
The housing market
is healthier.
The stock market has more
than doubled, restoring the
retirement savings
of millions.
Americans of all stripes
buckled down, rolled up
their sleeves, and worked
to bring this country back.
And to protect your efforts,
we had to do something more
- we had to make sure this
kind of crisis never
happens again.
That's why five years ago
this week, we enacted the
toughest Wall Street reform
in history - new rules of
the road to protect
businesses, consumers, and
our entire economy from the
kind of irresponsibility
that threatened all of us.
Five years later, here's
what that reform has done.
Wall Street Reform turned
the page on the era of "too
big to fail."
Now, in America, we welcome
the pursuit of profit.
But if your business fails,
we shouldn't have to bail
you out.
And under the new rules,
we won't - the days of
taxpayer-funded
bailouts are over.
Wall Street Reform now
allows us to crack down on
some of the worst types of
recklessness that brought
our economy to its knees,
from big banks making huge,
risky bets using borrowed
money, to paying executives
in a way that rewarded
irresponsible behavior.
Thanks to Wall Street
Reform, there's finally an
independent Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau
with one mission: to
protect American consumers.
Already, they've gone after
predatory or unscrupulous
mortgage brokers, student
lenders, credit card
companies, and they've won
-putting nearly $11 billion
back in the pockets of more
than 26 million consumers
who've been cheated.
So this law is working.
And we're working to
protect even more families.
Just this week, we announced
that we're cracking down on
the worst practices of
payday lenders on military
bases, so that our troops
and their families don't
wind up trapped in a
vicious cycle of debt.
As long as I'm President,
I'm going to keep doing
whatever I can to protect
consumers, and our entire
economy from the kind of
irresponsibility that led to
the Great Recession
in the first place.
None of this has been easy.
We've had to overcome fierce
lobbying campaigns from the
special interests and
their allies in Congress.
In fact, they're still
trying everything to attack
everything this reform
accomplishes-from hiding
rollbacks of key protections
in unrelated bills, to
blocking the financial cops
on the beat from doing
their job.
And they continue to claim
this Wall Street reform is
somehow bad for business.
But that doesn't explain 13
million new jobs and a stock
market near record highs.
This law is only bad for
business if your business
model depends on
recklessness that threatens
our economy or
irresponsibility that
threatens working families.
We can't put the security
of families at risk by
returning to the days when
big banks or bad actors were
allowed to write
their own rules.
And if any bill comes to my
desk that tries to unravel
the new rules on Wall
Street, I will veto it.
We've worked too hard to
recover from one crisis only
to risk another.
In America, we should reward
drive, innovation, and
fair play.
That's what Wall
Street reform does.
It makes sure everybody
plays by the same set of rules.
And if we keep moving
forward, not backward - if
we keep building an economy
that rewards responsibility
instead of recklessness,
then we won't just keep
coming back - we'll come
back stronger than ever.
Thanks, and have
a great weekend.